# Papers
## Published papers

- Yao, W., Xu, K., & Li, Q. (2019, June). [Exploring the influence of news articles on bitcoin price with machine learning](papers/wenbing_iscc19.pdf). In 2019 IEEE Symposium on computers and communications (ISCC) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
  - In recent years, cryptocurrencies have become more and more popular around the world, and they are being accepted and used by more countries. Cryptocurrencies are decentralized, and they form an emerging market that is different from stocks. At present, there is already much work around the stock price prediction using news articles, but there are few papers on the cryptocurrency market. In this paper, we aim to research the effects of news articles on bitcoin prices. We extract features from news articles with both commonly used text feature extraction algorithms (e.g., N-Gram and TF-IDF) and SentiGraph, which is a novel text representation method we propose. SentiGraph takes advantages of sentiment analysis and transforms a news article into a graph. Compared with previous feature extraction methods, our experiment results show that this new approach is superior on the prediction accuracy, which also demonstrates the impacts of news articles on the bitcoin price.
- Li, H., Zhao, Y., Yao, W., Xu, K., & Li, Q. (2023). [Towards real-time ML-based DDoS detection via cost-efficient window-based feature extraction](papers/ml_ddos.pdf). Science China Information Sciences, 66(5), 152105.
  - Distributed denial of service (DDoS) detection is still an open and challenging problem. In particular, sophisticated attacks, e.g., attacks that disguise attack packets as benign traﬃc always appear, which can easily evade traditional signature-based methods. Due to the low requirements for computing resources compared to deep learning, many machine learning (ML)-based methods have been realistically deployed to address this issue. However, most existing ML-based DDoS detection methods are highly dependent on the features extracted from each flow, which incur remarkable detection delay and computation overhead. This article investigates the limitations of typical ML-based DDoS detection methods caused by the extraction of flow-level features. Moreover, we develop a cost-eﬃcient window-based method that extracts features from a fixed number of packets periodically, instead of per flow, aiming to reduce the detection delay and computation overhead. The newly proposed window-based method has the advantages of well-controlled overhead and wide support of common routers due to its simplicity and high eﬃciency by design. Through extensive experiments on real datasets, we evaluate the performance of flow-based and window-based methods. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed window-based method can significantly reduce the detection delay and computation overhead while ensuring detection accuracy.
- Xu Ke, Yao Wen-bing. [Cyber Intelligent Economy and Blockchain](Cyber_Intelligent_Economy and_Blockchain.pdf)[J].Journal of Guangdong University of Technology, 2018, 35(03): 1-9.
  - The Internet combines economic system forming the innovative cyber economic system. The principal characteristics of cyber economy are discussed and the reason of its rapid development analyzed. From the perspective of information, cyber economy is of faster information growth, and the core reason of the growth is algorithms. As the foundation, algorithms prompt the new form of cyber economy i.e. cyber intellectual economy. Analogously, blockchain is expected to be the reliable infrastructure of cyber intellectual economy and consequently to innovate it. Furthermore, the characteristics of blockchain are also analyzed, pointing out the future opportunities and challenges.
- Wang, X., Liy, H., Yao, W., Lany, T., & Wu, Q. (2020, May). [Content delivery for high-speed railway via integrated terrestrial-satellite networks](papers/Content_Delivery_for_High_Speed_Railway_via_Integrated_Terrestrial_Satellite_Networks.pdf). In 2020 IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
  - The rapid development of high-speed railway (HSR) system draws great attention and challenges the current broad-band Internet access with high mobility. Though LTE-A networks can provide 100 Mbps throughput within a cell for a train speeding up to 350 km/h, the frequent handovers and service disruptions remain to be handled. This problem is particularly prominent for the delivery of a large volume of contents which demands high throughput and continuous connections. Besides the terrestrial cellular system, a satellite can also provide wireless broadband access with less frequent handovers. Recent advances in low earth orbit (LEO) satellite networks also prove to be practical for content delivery with acceptable delay. Therefore, we present a solution based on the integrated terrestrial-satellite network (ITSN) for high throughput and continuous connectivity. Multipath TCP (MPTCP) protocol is adopted to support multi-bearer communications and we apply network coding to further optimize the performance of MPTCP. Considering the mobility patterns of the HSR and satellite, we propose a scheduling and resource allocation mechanism with the prediction of the handovers and channel situation information (CSI). Cache assisted femto cells are implemented to aggregate the traffic demands and proactively cache the requested contents. Numerical results demonstrate that our solution well resists to the dynamic network conditions and improves the network performance and content delivery efficiency.
- Wang, X., Li, H., Tong, M., Yao, W., & Wu, Q. (2019, June). [Cooperative network-coded multicast for layered content delivery in d2d-enhanced hetnets](Cooperative_Network-coded.pdf). In 2019 IEEE Symposium on Computers and Communications (ISCC) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.
  - The rapid growth in multimedia applications over cellular networks calls for multicast services. Multicast is an efficient means of delivering contents to multiple users while efficiently utilizing network resources. Layered streaming, e.g., scalable video coding (SVC) provides an excellent solution to han- dle channel diversities in wireless multicast. This paper presents a cooperative multicast scheme for scalable video content delivery in D2D-enabled heterogeneous cellular networks (HetNets). To extend the multicast service beyond base stations (BSs), D2D links are used to help relay content for cellular multicast. Network coding (NC), implemented through random linear network coding (RLNC) with unequal error protection (UEP) is incorporated in layered contents to enhance reliability and throughput. This paper tries to optimize the multicast scheduling procedures, aiming to assign the optimal modulation and coding schemes (MCSs) for transmissions. The constraints on cache size, backhaul capacity and channel fading are comprehensively considered. Besides, this paper also presents a interference- aware approach for D2D link selection in order to further improve the cooperative multicast. Sufficient numerical results have demonstrated the improvement brought by the proposed scheme significantly on the content delivery efficiency as well as quality of experience (QoE).

## Graduate Thesis

[**Research on Market Analysis and Forecasting Framework of Transferable Digital Assets**](papers/Graduate_Thesis.pdf)

Abstract:

With the continuous development of blockchain and smart contract technology, digital assets have gradually developed. Blockchain technology has driven the rise of a new market, the tradable digital asset market. Due to the short development time and the lack of corresponding open and complete data sets, there are few studies on this market, and the research on market forecasting is extremely lacking and insuﬃcient. However, the market capacity of the digital asset market is increasing year by year. Therefore, the research on the digital asset market has important theoretical and practical significance. Based on the current status of the tradable digital asset market, an analysis and forecasting framework is proposed. Focusing on the two tasks of analysis and prediction, the system was designed and the prototype system was implemented. The main contributions are as follows:

1. Designed a framework for digital asset analysis and forecasting. Based on the analysis of the characteristics of the digital asset market, the structure of the analysis and prediction framework is proposed, and the workflow and required functional components of the analysis and prediction are given. The framework has the advantages of strong compatibility, high scalability, and easy design and development.

2. Proposed a multi-angle analysis of the market, e.g., news articles, blockchain data and price data. Diﬀerent feature extraction and analysis methods are adopted for diﬀerent types of information. For news data, diﬀerent text representation methods have been introduced. Nine typical features are proposed for the data on the chain. Diﬀerent analysis methods (time series analysis, machine learning) are proposed for diﬀerent types of data. At the same time, it is easy to introduce other types of data, diﬀerent analysis methods.

3. Proposed a new text representation method. The method is based on the weakness of the previous general text representation method in market forecasting, making full use of the emotional information between entities in the text, and representing the long text (news article) as a sentiment graph. This method is more accurate in analyzing the impact of news articles on market price fluctuations.

4. Implemented the prototype system and conducted empirical study on the most representative digital asset and cryptocurrency, i.e., Bitcoin. In-depth analysis of market price from volatility, predictability and the correlation between various factors and market price volatility are presented. And based on the forecast results, we simulated transactions to explore the eﬀectiveness of digital asset market.

